our speaker today is the editor-in-chief
and the daily why're we all love him
obviously from the ben shapiro show the
top conservative podcasts in the nation
he was 17 when he became a syndicated
you know show host the youngest in
America's history he's the author of
seven books several of them have ended
up on the New York Times bestseller list
honestly he earned his BA in political
science at UCLA graduated from Harvard
Law alright and what I appreciate about
him is that we might not share the same
faith I mean he is a devout Jewish
friend and we are Christians but this
morning we talked so much about what we
have in common and so much about our
desire to see the sanctity of life be
protected in the life of a baby in a
womb we talked a lot about our beliefs
in wanting to see wanting to see this
place return and and and he really is
I think a partner with us not just the
guest who's gonna find a lot in common
with us but a partner with us and in
ways that we're excited about unrolling
in the next few years to you but I know
you're excited I'm gonna get out of the
way come on let's put our hands together
for the one the only everybody
well thank you so much
[Applause]
it really is a pleasure and an honor to
be here today at Liberty University I'd
like to give a special thanks to Fred
Allen and young America's Foundation for
making this event possible
obviously sponsoring these sorts of
events makes it possible for me to bring
good news and good words to I think a
lot of folks around the country here I
think they need it less than maybe some
of the other places that I speak before
I begin I wanted to take just a moment
so it can silently pray together for
Alfie Evans if you don't know the story
of Alfie Evans Alfie Evans is a
two-year-old child in Britain who has a
degenerative brain condition and the
government of Britain is now declaring
that his parents cannot leave the
country with Alfie Evans to seek
experimental treatments he has to stay
in a hospital and die at the hand of the
state so before we go any further I'd
like to just take about five seconds
here ten seconds and just pray silently
fora for Alfie and his family who are I
think doing God's work and standing up
for the value of life thank you I
appreciate it well I've long believed
that the future of our nation is
inextricably intertwined with the future
of judeo-christian value system and I
know of very few places in the United
States that are more valuable to that
future than right here at Liberty
University I'm just blown away by you
guys
America was built on a fundamental idea
an idea that was the product of nearly
3,000 years a philosophical evolution
that idea planted at Sinai watered in
the Galilee pruned through the thought
of Athens and strengthened by the push
and pull of reason and revelation for
centuries was embedded by our founders
in the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution of the United States
that principle was simple that human
beings are made in the image of God and
we are therefore beneficiaries of the
inalienable god-given rights that
government was created in order to
protect those rights not invade them and
that we must use our freedom to pursue
reach the to pursue virtue God said to
Pharaoh let my people go so that they
may worship me hey the United States
echoed that message from it's very
inception George Washington stated in
his first inaugural address quote since
there exists in the economy and course
of nature an indissoluble union between
virtue and happiness between duty and
advantage the propitious smiles of
heaven can never be expected on a nation
that disregards the eternal Rules of
Order and right which heaven itself has
ordained the very basis of our politics
then lies in the recognition that rights
without virtues lead to chaos and that
virtues without Rights lead to tyranny
only by balancing public rights with
private virtues can we truly uphold
freedom and pursue happiness one half of
the equation though seems to have gone
awry in modern America we've been taught
that our rights are paramount which is
fine but we have also been taught that
we have no duty to be virtuous in fact
anyone who says that we have a duty to
be virtuous is harming you micro
aggressing you ethnocentrically
mansplaining to you in cisgender fashion
how can anyone expect us to be virtue
the argument goes when the system itself
is so deeply flawed how can we blame
people for being immoral when the system
is biased in favor of a few white rich
men at the top first we have to fix the
system then human beings themselves will
change virtue will become natural all
just magically become wonderful great
people all we have to do to make this
magical thing happen is hand over all
our freedoms to a centralized government
and that government will then provide us
new rights you know better than the old
god-given ones instead of the rights of
free speech the government will provide
us a right not to be a
offended our feelings will be protected
instead of a right to life the
government will provide us the right to
kill unborn babies instead of a right to
create and keep the wages of our labor
the government will provide us a nice
comfortable social safety net without us
actually having to do the work then
after all that's done human beings will
magically become better will become good
if all this happens this is the
philosophy of collectivism the
philosophy that says that human beings
suffer because the judeo-christian
system expects too much of us
individually judeo-christian philosophy
expects us to struggle to strive
judeo-christian philosophy demands that
we do our best and that we act
virtuously on the individual level so we
can feel secure without invading each
other's rights the judeo-christian
tradition says that with freedom comes
responsibility collectivist philosophy
however thinks differently they expect
us to give our individual striving up no
more striving no more struggle all we
have to do is trade our individual
responsibility for the comfort of
collective power collectivist philosophy
points out that individual virtue isn't
natural it is a struggle and we can
avoid that struggle by handing over all
power to a nanny-state
judeo-christianity says you're free and
therefore you must give collectivist
philosophy says your unfree and thus the
state must take on your behalf it's this
philosophy of collectivism against which
Moses and Jesus and George Washington
and Thomas Jefferson and James Madison
fought it is this philosophy that
Americans have fought and bled and died
to extend to more and more people over
time Abraham Lincoln saw black slaves as
human beings and hundreds of thousands
of Americans died to extend the American
covenant to them American soldiers left
their corpses on the beaches of Normandy
to extend that promise to subject
people's Martin Luther King jr. was
assassinated fighting to extend the
American promise to black Americans
Ronald Reagan spent his years fighting
to spread the light of Americanism
beyond the Berlin Wall and today
Americans liberate Muslims in the Middle
East from the heavy hand of collectivist
Islamism Americans protect South Koreans
and Taiwanese free people from the
burden of North Korean and Chinese
communism Americans stand ready to
thwart the threat of collectivist
journey across the globe but there is a
threat to founding philosophy growing
right here at home it's growing because
too many Americans believe that virtue
is less important
Virtue's signaling hey too many
Americans believe that freedom is
actually a burden too many Americans
believe that they know what's best for
other Americans even when they
personally abandon virtue so the
question becomes how exactly do we go
about restoring the judeo-christian
tradition upon which the nation was
built how exactly do we bring back the
philosophy of the founders and restore
their promise well to do that we have to
go back to basics we actually have to
talk about morality and politics not
just efficiency not just why our ideas
were but morality what is good and what
is bad what is right what is wrong what
is true and what is evil now advocates
for personal philosophy if our founding
philosophy you know these personal
freedoms individual responsibility we
make a pretty big mistake when we talk
about that philosophy because we do
spend a lot of time talking about how
effective it is we point out that free
markets have led to the greatest
reduction in poverty in world history in
1981 40 4.3 percent of the global
population lived on less than a buck 90
a day in 2015 the global extreme poverty
rate dipped below 10% we on the right
like to point out that a philosophy of
individualism has led to massive
increases in living standards within the
United States and also around the world
and we point out the collectivist
countries tend to stagnate but we don't
point to often two underlying values see
here's the thing we have to acknowledge
there is a draw to collectivism there is
a draw to leftism the draw is pretty
simple collectivism promises solutions
to cosmic and Justices when collectivist
stands up here and invoke the least
specific I mean like here on this stage
and invoke the least specific verses of
the Bible to justify government
redistribution ISM and crackdowns on
religious practice because of fairness
they are making a moral appeal when
Bernie Sanders stands up here and tells
you that the top 1% of the 1% Oh 90
percent of all the wealth
when he says that America is not a just
society in line with a context-free
verse from a book he's never read by
Amos and then suggest that if you give
him more power he will rectify that
unfairness that is immoral appeal it is
not is not an argument about efficiency
it's a bad moral appeal of course
inequality doesn't necessarily mean
unfairness but it is a moral appeal and
that moral appeal unfortunately for too
many people is effective it's effective
because it goes to our hearts not to our
heads it reminds us of fundamental
values even if it's skewing those
fundamental values conservatives tend to
talk about what works people on the Left
tend to talk about what's fair but
values are not a left-wing monopoly in
fact the fundamental values of Western
civilization run a hell of a lot deeper
than the shallow values of the
collectivists the values that resonate
most with human beings are eternal not
changeable and not relativistic they are
universal they are not group specific
and most of all they apply to individual
human beings not group labels and those
values were first embedded clearly and
concisely in the ten commandments if we
return to those values
we will be a virtuous citizenry
deserving of our Liberty and if we turn
away from those values well then we'll
return to the horror of collectivism in
tyranny so I want to go through the ten
commandments and I want to explain what
they say to today's modern politics what
they say to us in the room and why the
Ten Commandments are so important and
why they are still the basis for our
outreach program on behalf of not only
our God but on behalf of a philosophy
that is the only remaining hope for
Western civilization
so the first commandment is the most
controversial and it's also the simplest
I'm the Lord that God who brought you
out of Egypt out of the land of bondage
now to start off is a bizarre
commandment because it doesn't actually
command you to do anything on its face
but it does implicitly command you to do
something remove yourself from the
arbitrary bondage of the state and place
yourself under a higher set of
Commandments the Bible tells us in
Genesis that we are each made in God's
image and that means we have the
capacity to choose and the obligation to
choose right over wrong and life over
death responsibilities evolves on us
personally because we're servants of God
not servants of the state across three
millennia Jews and Christians alike have
fought for the common notion then
allegiance to God outranks our
allegiance to the state and that if you
use government to restrict my communion
with godly values I will resist you in
every way possible
today collectivists folks on the left
they tell us that the state can order
you to disobey God in your daily
dealings right they can order the
Christian Baker to cater the same-sex
wedding they can order the Jewish doctor
like my wife to perform abortions right
the first commandment says no you can't
and so does the first amendment which
guarantees freedom of religion for
precisely this reason and it's because
the founders understood the danger of
tyranny and the value of individual
freedom before God they instituted the
second amendment to they recognized that
we have a god-given right to defend
ourselves from tyranny and from terror
[Music]
the second commandment is also
particularly important in today's
society it says thou shalt have no other
gods before me this is particularly
relevant when it comes to the cults of
personality that seems to dominate our
politics we're told on all sides and we
ought to trust the people at the top to
solve our problems a little bit of trust
goes a long way every time something
goes wrong in the United States we are
informed that if we just gave the
government more power our problems would
be solved like ancient pagans if we
sacrifice a bowl on top of a mountain
the Health and Human Services Department
will ensure nobody dies in cancer
this is stupid nonsense Bernie and
Elizabeth Warren worship at the altar of
fairness they proclaim the universe is
cosmically unjust if you just hand over
power to them all of that will be cured
God says nah God says we are not allowed
to trust in Princes and that means that
it is also our job to call out our
leaders when they stray to do otherwise
is to deify human beings it is not our
job to ignore the sins of our leaders by
determining that they are in fact King
David selected by God to fulfill his
will it is our job to be Nathan the
Prophet declaring wrong is when we see
them in service to God
[Music]
if our leaders sinned we are bound to
say why did you despise the word of the
Lord by doing what is evil in his eyes
and our leaders must repent to merit
God's love just as we must constantly
repent before him power doesn't exempt
sin and if it did our leaders would be
gods and we would be their subjects the
third commandment says that we must not
take God's name in vain this doesn't
merely mean that we shouldn't shout God
bleep it God can handle a little potty
mouth it does mean that we can't twist
God's words to justify our own political
agendas
[Music]
Christian's cannot justify abortion by
misquoting Matthew 7:12 and talking
about the golden rule if they do they
are putting their own words in God's
mouth we can't use we cannot use
Deuteronomy 16 20 to justify a
government cracking down on religious
people to promote same-sex marriage
while deliberately ignoring the words of
Leviticus okay and we cannot justify
forcible redistribution of wealth by
citing matthew on the least of these
while ignoring the words of leviticus 19
15 in which god enjoins us not to
pervert justice on behalf of the poor or
the wealthy selectively citing the bible
while ignoring all the inconvenient
parts that makes you a Bible abuser and
it makes you dishonest as well the
fourth commandment says then we must
remember the Sabbath and keep it holy
one of the weirdest elements of
collectivism is that it says we all owe
something to the collective and yet
weirdly collectivist seem to give a lot
less to charity New York Mayor Bill
DeBlasio routinely rips into the greedy
rich the guy gave a grand total of 350
bucks to charity last year on an
adjusted gross income of two hundred
twenty three thousand four hundred forty
nine dollars by the way he paid the guy
who for various taxes five hundred bucks
when you see income as the state's
responsibility rather than a gift from
God it alleviates the responsibility of
actually having to pass that gift on to
those who are less fortunate
instead you can demand that the
government play God and grab other
people's cash the commandment to honor
the Sabbath also reminds us that our
time doesn't actually belong to the
state it belongs to us every seven days
we say no more tyrannies say that our
labor is not our own we owe it to the
collective our time is in her own our
income isn't our own our labor isn't our
own work harder because the state is
your Creator remember that our time is a
gift from God that's the first step
toward fighting tyranny the fifth
commandment says that we have to honor
our parents obviously this calls a lot
of folks on the left really galls them
see collectivists see the state as the
source of our morals and our families
obstacles standing between individuals
and their master that's exactly what's
happening with Alfie Evans where
bureaucrats are standing between parents
and their child saying that they know
best that a child has to die because
they know better than the parents do
collectivists they there's a reason that
karl marx abhorred the traditional
family
to say that he saw it as a capitalist
institution based on capital and on
private gain he openly called for
abolition of the family
there's a reason Stalin trained Soviet
youth to become pioneers that's what he
called them emissaries of the state who
are told that the highest good involves
ratting out your own family members at 1
1932 Soviet trial a father actually
cried out to his son it's me your father
and the son replied yes he used to be my
father but I no longer consider him my
father I'm not acting as a son but as a
pioneer Stalin used to go around Soviet
Russia
talking about this story and using it as
an example of good behavior he breaking
down the family is a precondition to
building up the state and furthermore
respecting your parents means you
actually have to respect their belief
systems you know the ones that have been
passed down generation after generation
the ones that your grandparents spill
blood for GK Chesterton wrote in 1929
the more modern type of reformer goes
gaily up to a fence and says I don't see
the use of this let us clear it away the
more religious type of reformer would do
well to answer quote if you don't see
the use of it I certainly won't let you
clear it away go away and think then
when you can tell me come back and tell
me that you do see the use of it then I
may allow you to destroy it
the founders understood the value of the
past the authors of the French
Revolution didn't this is why Edmund
Burke condemned the French Revolution he
saw the revolutionaries as stripping
away fences that were built over
thousands of years of human thought he
said their liberty is not liberal their
scientists presumptuous ignorance their
humanity is savage and brutal and Edmund
Burke was right our parents may be wrong
from time to time but you presume as so
many on the left do that we can ignore
the lessons of the past to discard our
parents build the worlds in new each
generation that consigned thousands if
not millions to flames the sixth
commandment is pretty simple we should
all be able to agree on that secular
religious alike thou shalt not murder
unfortunately as we are currently seeing
in Britain this is not the case
collectivists routinely dismissed the
value of human life this by the way is
the difference between social justice
and individual justice individual
justice demands that you have to be held
responsible for the stuff you do for
your own crimes social justice says that
your life on its own is of little
consequence if a few eggs must be broken
to make an omelet then that's the way it
works to ask for raw evidence of
wrongdoing becomes of secondary concern
the only thing that matters is the end
goal when we use people as means rather
than ends murder becomes possible
and by the way it's actually kind of
easy to use human beings as means rather
than ends there's a famous study that
was done at Yale University by Stanley
Milgram in 1961 and here's how it works
he chose pairs of participants one would
randomly be chosen to become a learner
and the other randomly chosen become a
teacher accepted selection was not
random the drawing was rigged so the
volunteers would become teachers and the
learners were actually working for the
experiments are there working for
Milgram so the learners were taken into
a separate room and they were hooked up
to electrodes that were supposedly
buzzing with electricity teachers the
volunteers in this program were brought
into a separate room containing a switch
they could shift the electric level from
15 volts all the way up to 450 volts
teachers these volunteers were then
informed by the researchers that it was
their job to shock learners for making
errors in a war game the researchers
would remain in the world in the room
and they would push the teachers to
shock the learners telling them to
continue according to Milgram
experiments 2 in 3 teachers shocked the
learners all the way up to 450 volts
even as the actors begged for mercy
every one of the teachers shocked the
learners up to 300 volts Milgram
concluded called stark Authority was
pitted against the subjects strongest
moral imperatives against hurting others
and with the subjects peers ringing with
the screams of the victims authority one
more often than not hey people are not
averse to murder unless they are taught
that they are personally responsible for
the actions they take nowhere is this
truer than in the case of abortion no
we're a society we have taught
individual human beings around the
United States and around the world they
are not responsible for their actions
that's how you get a piece in The
Washington Post by Ruth Marcus
championing the killing of unborn
children with Down syndrome Shep she
wrote this quote I'm gonna be blunt here
this was not the child I wanted you can
call me selfish or worse but I am in
good company it takes generations of
inculcation in vice in order to believe
such idiocy she is wrong
Ruth Marcus is wrong she is not in good
company she is in quite evil company but
human beings have always provided each
other company when pursuing evil without
being taught an individuals system of
virtue where you are responsible for the
actions that you take the seventh the
seventh commandment is not to commit
adultery again you would think that this
one would be obvious right
it isn't unfortunately this commandment
assumes the value of individual human
beings it assumes that you have the
individual capacity to control your own
nature collectivists reject both of
these assumptions wholesale there's a
reason that Marx believes in what he
called the community of women he met
widespread promiscuity the idea that one
man and one woman must sublimate their
desires in order to promise each other
their trust and love it stands in stark
contrast to the ownership of the
collective family formation is the
single greatest threat to the
substitution of leftist values for
judeo-christian ones because it assumes
that you personally are capable of
overcoming your own nature and because
the creation of children changes your
life it means that you are now
responsible for someone else your
highest priority is protection of your
family rather than serving the
collective I have two kids now they made
me a better human being kids make you a
better human being if you allow them to
and being married to one person for the
rest of your life makes you a better
human being as well
[Music]
furthermore the commandment not to
commit adultery actually places pleasure
below commitment on the scale of
priorities and this annoys a lot of
people this runs counter to the
comforting promises of the collectivists
they say that you should trade away your
rights you notice that you have this
softest aquino cocoon of security the
promise of zero consequences for your
action give control to the collective
you won't have to control yourself if
you just give control to the collective
over your entire life they will give you
free condoms they will pay for your
abortion all the rest but the
judeo-christian ethic says to control
yourself and that in doing so you become
better and freer and a better servant of
the Lord who made you the eighth
commandment is similarly simple and
should be similarly non-controversial
unfortunately it's not thou shalt not
steal individualism relies on our
respect for one another's rights the
Bible explicitly forbids the notion of
social justice as a rationale for theft
the New Testament says in 2nd
Thessalonians quote the one who is
unwilling to work shall not eat charity
is mandated by judeo-christian religion
theft is forbidden and legalized theft
is still theft
if two of us are in a room with Bill
Gates and we vote to take Bill Gates's
money we are still thieves is a
violation of the eighth commandment just
because that's a democracy doesn't mean
it's not theft corporate welfare is
theft as well when big companies Commons
your our politics to subsidies from
other citizens that is theft to theft
isn't just you picking somebody else's
pocket it's you getting together with
your friends and deciding to create laws
that allow you to pick somebody else's
pocket the ninth commandment is not to
bear false witness against your neighbor
perhaps this one is the most commonly
violated commandment of our time the
willingness to suggest that our
neighbors are nasty people bad
characters for the sake of elevating
particular collective ideologies take
for example the issue of gun control now
you can be for more gun control you can
be against more gun control but folks on
the left constantly make the case that
if you oppose their agenda it's because
you don't care enough about dead kids
that you're simply willing to watch them
die for a buck oh five from the National
Rifle Association okay that's not only a
lie it is bearing false witness because
there is no evidence for this
proposition but for a lot of folks on
the Left everyone is either a tool or an
obstacle to utopia and so lying about
your political enemies is simply a great
way to achieve your objective these
character attacks have become
commonplace in our politics the idea
that if you disagree with somebody it's
because they're a bad person not because
you disagree about the underlying values
the underlying principles or agree about
those values and principles but disagree
about the politics themselves instead
everything has become about ripping
people down on a personal level
disagreement becomes a character assault
as long as that lasts we can't have a
free republic finally
finally the tenth commandment you shall
not cover your neighbor's ass
sorry Bill Clinton individualism
individualism is based on the
possibilities in herre within human
beings you're capable of a lot and you
must be encouraged to take advantage of
those possibilities you're not a victim
you're not a victim hey you can achieve
what your neighbor has achieved jealousy
is forbidden by the Bible and if you
can't that gives you no right to believe
that your neighbor's property belongs to
you
in Judaism this commandment not to not
to covet your neighbor's property has
been interpreted for thousands of years
to mean that you can covet a Tesla like
your neighbors Tesla but you can't covet
your neighbors Tesla which actually
makes perfect sense a free system offers
you the opportunity to make something of
yourself it offers you the opportunity
to do better it doesn't offer you the
ability to glom off of somebody else's
achievements collectivism rejects this
and hopes to end jealousy by narrowing
the scope of human potential for you to
redistribute all the property no one
gets the Tesla then maybe jealousy will
go away that's not how human beings
operate it's a rejection of God and it's
a rejection of the creative power of man
God implanted into all of us so here's
why all of this matters heroes who I
went through all 10 commandments hey
America is struggling right now in a lot
of ways but the biggest struggle we are
having the most difficult struggle we
are having is the struggle for our
national soul we're so angry at each
other right now right the anger is
palpable when you going to talk to
members your own family about politics
there's no way to have a good discussion
without it's involving into people
yelling at each other well why are
people so angry right now we're so angry
because our common vision has been
destroyed we used to believe in the
founding vision supported by the
framework of personal virtue called from
judeo-christian morality the government
was there to protect us from hurting
each other and judeo-christian morality
was there to inculcate virtue in us so
that government didn't have to step in
hey we used to see each other as
brothers and sisters as friends and
family not the 1% versus the 99% or the
privilege versus the victims we were not
enemies we were a community forged in
fire tethered together by a set of
values stretching all the way back to
the Garden of Eden but no longer
somewhere along the way we came to
believe that we stood above the
tradition that bore us that we were
better than the philosophical system of
the founders we began to think we were
better than God we began to score in our
past we began to think we could remake
the world tearing down fences without
considering why those fences were there
in the first place
we were wrong hey war it is our job to
repair those fences not to tear them
down to repair them to learn about them
to realize why we were there only then
can we change the placement of those
fences it
it is our job to learn as you're doing
here at Liberty about what made our
civilization great and what can make our
civilization great still it is our job
to reconnect with both the Word of God
and with the philosophy of individual
liberty that sprang from that same Word
of God if we do all of that if we do all
of that then we will truly be deserving
of God's blessing and fit to proclaim
Liberty throughout all the land unto all
the inhabitants thereof thank you so
much
[Applause]
fantastic
you